---
title: "Affect"
draft: true
---

## ## [[AFFECT]]

<br class="breakpage">



Because it is difficult to perfectly transfer a thought from one mind to another it is essential that the principal medium through which such transference is accomplished may be as perfect as it is possible to make it(figure: images/intro-plastic-waste-in-fuel-tank-gijs-schalkx_dithered.png width:4 printwidth:12  caption: "Le site imprimé : premier volume en français. <br>https://solar.lowtechmagazine.com/").

The book(figure: images/tomeIII-candle_dithered.png width:4 printwidth:6 caption: "Le site imprimé : premier volume en français.") has become such a force as had not been dreamed of a generation ago. The magical increase in the circulation of books, by sale and through libraries, is one of the modern marvels. It is inevitable that the gentle and elevating influence of good literature will be greater and broader in proportion to the increase of the reading habit, for despite the great amount of triviality in literature the proportion of good is larger than ever before, and the trivial has not as large a proportion of absolute badness. The critical are prone to underrate the influence of what they esteem trivial literature upon the lives of the people who read little else. It is certain that there is some good in it, and that it affects the lives(figure: images/french-book-TomeIII_dithered.png width:4 printwidth:6 caption: "A figure whose display is moved to the end of the chapter") of those who read it. Even the most lawless of the bandits of the sanguinary novels has a knightly strain in his character, and his high crimes and misdemeanors are tempered with a certain imperative code of homely morality and chivalry. The spectacular crimes are recognized by the majority of readers as the stage setting for the tale—the tabasco sauce for the literary pabulum. They are not considered to be essential traits of admirable character. The cure for the distemper it is supposed to excite resides in the sensational literature of the day; it is as likely to lead to better things, it may be, as it is likely to deprave.


It is not wholly by means of the literal significance of certain forms of words that ideas are given currency, whether the words are spoken or printed(figure: images/collection-of-solar-panels_dithered.png width:4 printwidth:12 caption: "A figure whose display is moved to the end of the chapter"). In speaking it is easy to convey an impression opposed to the literal meaning of the words employed, by the tone, the expression, the emphasis. It is so also with printed matter. The thought or idea to be communicated acquires or loses force, directness, clearness, lucidity, beauty, in proportion to the fitness of the typography employed as a medium.

